[Music]
in a world where darkness thrives
billions of creatures too small to see
are searching seeking the fighting it's
good versus evil who will survive with
the lives of everyone on the planet in
the balance the secret life of bacteria
inside your body coming soon to a
theater near you okay movie trailer guy
you're done thank you no prob
alright yeah they're always there for
you and with you through good times and
bad no I'm not talking about your
friends sorry but about all the
microscopic organisms in your body next
time you're feeling a little lonely just
think of all the trillions of tiny
creatures living inside you you
definitely won't feel alone for long now
let's take a little journey throughout
your body and learn about some of the
most important and coolest bacteria out
there or should I say in there well this
isn't your average video folks we're
happy to offer you a unique opportunity
to meet these microscopic life-forms
face-to-face in their full glory so feel
free to scroll around on your screen to
see them from different angles and
points of view oh cool huh okay let's
dive into your nose which is home to the
phyla actinobacteria and Firmicutes the
latter are mostly Stef la caucus despite
this scary sounding name they're all
good for you as long as they don't get
together with others of their kind you
see when you come in contact with
someone else's bacteria of this type
through your nose or skin you're likely
to get an infection or pneumonia and
just to calm your nerves a quarter of
the US population has a whole bunch of
Staphylococcus aureus and they're
perfectly healthy those staffs look
pretty good don't they scroll around for
a better view
you ready to move on 1 2 3 jump and it
looks like we're now in your mouth area
what a perfect place to study bacteria
they're pretty much all over the place
and guess what there are way more
bacteria in your mouth alone than there
are people on the entire planet
yep you have billions of bacteria in the
oral area more than 700 species of them
you swallow around 1/5 of a gallon of
saliva a day and it brings 100 billion
bacteria into your mouth even if you're
diligent about brushing your teeth
anywhere from 1,000 to 100,000 bacteria
remain right where they are
hey what did you just do looks like you
kissed someone and exchanged to another
80 million bacteria with them some
bacteria like streptococcus mutans are
pretty bad for you since they cost tooth
decay when they come into contact with
sugary foods streptococcus sella various
k12 on the contrary helps you out by
fighting off the stinky bacteria and
keeping your breath fresh and check out
these creatures down here it must be
some of those Haemophilus bacteria they
were discovered back in 1892 and
originally thought to cause the flu well
that ended up being a false accusation
because having them in your mouth nose
and throat doesn't normally lead to any
illness whatsoever
now let's continue the tour down your
gastrointestinal tract the largest group
of microorganisms here is back to roids
they're in a love-hate relationship with
us humans when they remain in the gut
where they actually belong they help
break down food to get the nutrients and
energy your body needs but if they
wander out of the intestines they can
lead to terrible infections and start
abscesses in your body also when you get
sick and take antibiotics they breed
like crazy and give you some serious
discomfort
the good bacteria in your gut are the
ones I'm sure you've heard of
lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium bifida
are added to healthy yogurts for a
reason lactobacilli are responsible for
the digestion of organic food and
creating an acidic environment so that
bad bacteria can't spread these guys
play a huge role in proper functioning
of your immune system bifidobacteria
also do a great job in protecting your
gut from bad bacteria by covering the
surface of the intestine to prevent
harmful microbes from sticking to and
multiplying on its walls another type of
bacteria dwelling in your intestines
that's worth mentioning is the
mycoplasma scientists call them the
crabgrass of cell cultures because
they're really hard to detect and get
rid of mycobacteria are mostly harmful
to humans since they cause urinary tract
infections all right I've got a gut
feeling that we've had enough of the gut
we've got lots more areas to explore so
let's get a move-on going down ground
floor please actually let's make a quick
pit stop at the bellybutton trust me
you'll enjoy it now believe it or not
your cute little belly button is home to
over 1,400 different bacterial species
and get this there was once a guy whose
navel contained a strand of bacteria
that lives in Japanese soil the real
kicker is that this dude had never even
been to Japan that just goes to show you
how far bacteria can travel and be
transmitted crazy huh ok moving on
welcome to the reproductive organs a
healthy man will have no bacteria in his
upper genital tract as for the ladies
their intimate organs particularly the
vagina are rich in lactobacillus
bacteria which we already know are good
for us as for the mucous lining inside
the uterus and fallopian tubes
it's home to Pseudomonas bacteria what's
interesting about this type is that it's
also found in soil water
in plants worldwide they're perfectly
harmless as long as you're healthy
nothing scary will happen if you get
them from somewhere or someone else
however things can get pretty dangerous
if you have a weak immune system and you
get some Pseudomonas from contaminated
food a pool or a bathroom and let's hope
you never ever get this next type of
bacteria the gonorrhea bacterium is
first of all disgusting but it's also
the strongest organism on our planet
it's so powerful in fact that it could
pull 22 full Boeing 747s now that's
pretty impressive for a creature that
can only be seen through a microscope
don't you think okay where to now how
about your largest organ any guesses as
to what it is go ahead and write down in
the comments what you think it might be
it comes in contact with millions of
bacteria every single day if you guess
that it's your skin Congrats you are
right Oh next time you grab your cell
phone and check out your social media
handles think about this your phone
screen has more bacteria on it than a
public restroom oh that is not unless
you regularly disinfect like you should
yep
everything you touch covers your skin in
tons of bacteria so who can protect you
from all that evil the army of
Staphylococcus epidermidis of course it
works wonders when it comes to boosting
your skin's defense system scientists
have even found that when applied
topically these bacterias can fight
Steffler coccus aureus which is the
Strand that causes eczema another big
and friendly group living on your lovely
skin is the Micrococcus family these
guys also serve as a protective shield
from outside invaders as you can see
they ain't winning any beauty contests
soon but they do their job well and
deserve summers back one final skin
bacteria that's worth noting is proprio
a bacterium acnes when in healthy skin
this bacterium is important because it
carries genes
for antimicrobial compounds that kill
harmful bacteria of course when it's
growth gets out of control perhaps due
to overactive sebaceous glands or
clogged pores it can cause acne hence
the name and now our tour is now over I
know it flew by too fast but like we
said there are trillions of bacteria in
our bodies and just not enough time to
cover them all unfortunately but at
least now you have a better idea of
who's sharing your body with you
hopefully this video has shown you that
the scary sounding word bacteria isn't
always a negative thing good bacteria
help us digest food and protect us by
killing off the bad guys and now that
you've gotten to know them up close and
personal maybe give them a thanks for
all their hard work a since we didn't
have time to meet all the bacteria in
the human body share in the comments
below what other types you know about if
you found this video interesting and fun
go ahead and give it a like be sure to
subscribe and stay with us
on the bright side of life